Unreal Engine 5.8=unreal-engine-5.8-1920x10801920×1080 156 KB

We’re excited to announce that Unreal Engine 5.8 is now available. Download now on the Epic Games Launcher, GitHub, or our Linux page.

UE 5.8 pushes performance and customization further with advanced worldbuilding and terrain creation, real-time vegetation authoring, and streamlined lighting workflows. Build characters and animations faster, easily scale high-fidelity digital humans, and accelerate workflows with the integrated MCP plugin for LLMs.

You can check out the full release notes here, with some highlights picked out below!

Create expansive open worlds

Mesh Terrain is a new 3D mesh-based landscape system that makes it faster and easier to create detailed environments of any scale. Build complex terrain like cliffs, overhangs, caves, and more—without the limitations of traditional heightfields.

Updates to the Procedural Content Generation (PCG) framework give you greater creative control and scalability with nondestructive manual editing, richer procedural environments, and streamlined graph workflows that are easier to build and manage.

The Procedural Vegetation Editor (PVE) enables you to create high-quality, biologically accurate, Nanite-ready vegetation assets that react to wind systems—directly within the Unreal Editor.

Streamline character and animation creation

Character creation and animation are faster and more intuitive in Unreal Engine 5.8, with new tools that reduce reliance on external applications and provide greater creative control directly in the editor.

Expanded Skeletal Editor tools make it easier to sculpt faces, correct poses, and customize MetaHumans directly in Unreal Engine.

Enhanced Control Rig Physics and the new Dynamics solver give animators greater control over dynamic motion, blending physics-based reactions with keyframed animation for more realistic and responsive characters.

Direct Mesh Controls mean animators can interact directly with a character’s mesh, reducing viewport clutter and making facial and performance animation faster and more natural.

Advance real-time rendering

Unreal Engine 5.8 continues to push real-time visual quality while improving performance across platforms.

MegaLights is now Production-Ready, making it possible to add large numbers of dynamic shadowed lights to scenes with less noise, improved image quality, and optimized performance. It’s designed to help teams reach 60 FPS targets on current-generation consoles.

Lumen Lite delivers lighting that is up to twice as fast as Lumen High Quality, helping developers target 60 FPS on handheld devices and lower-end PCs while preserving artistic intent.

The new Toon Shader makes it easier to create stylized visuals inspired by anime, cartoons, and hand-drawn art styles, while Fog Screen Space Scattering enhances fog, smoke, and dust with more realistic lighting and atmosphere.

Scale realistic digital humans

MetaHuman 5.8 expands what’s possible for creating, populating, and animating digital humans at scale.

MetaHuman Collections make it easy to populate real-time worlds with scalable crowds, balancing visual fidelity and performance across mobile, console, and high-end platforms.

Mesh to MetaHuman is more powerful than ever, enabling you to turn almost any human mesh into a fully rigged MetaHuman. Support for arbitrary body and head topology makes it easier to convert scans, existing characters, and assets from external tools into production-ready digital humans.

MetaHuman Animator now supports markerless motion capture, enabling full-body and facial performance capture using something as simple as a single webcam.

Speed up mobile development

Mobile workflows are now faster and easier from setup through deployment.

Automated Android SDK setup simplifies workstation configuration, while faster cook times reduce iteration delays by avoiding unnecessary asset recooking.

With the new Unreal Engine Remote app, you can test mobile input directly from the editor, while improved Platform Preview provides a more accurate representation of how your game will look on target devices. Updated mobile documentation also offers end-to-end guidance for setup, development, debugging, optimization, and shipping.

Accelerate virtual production

Virtual production and cinematic teams can take advantage of more refined and robust rendering tools, improved visual fidelity, and more streamlined performance capture workflows.

Movie Render Graph is now Production-Ready, delivering a flexible, graph-based approach to cinematic rendering with simplified setup, expanded render layers, and advanced post-production controls.

Accumulation Depth of Field delivers more cinematic, film-style focus effects with higher-quality rendering and fewer visual artifacts—without requiring Path Tracing.

Live Link Hub is now Production-Ready, bringing performance capture tools into a single interface with centralized device control, synchronized recording, and live multi-camera monitoring.

Simplify creative iteration

New tools in Unreal Engine 5.8 help teams iterate faster and take advantage of emerging LLM-powered workflows.

The new MCP plugin connects LLMs directly to Unreal Engine, enabling automated asset creation, testing, optimization, and project interaction across core engine systems.

The new Editor Gizmo System delivers a more consistent and intuitive editing experience with improved precision, clearer visual feedback, customizable controls, and better reliability across the editor.

Iterate physics assets faster

Physics-based content creation is more flexible and efficient..

Dataflow is now Production-Ready, making it easier to create and iterate on physics-based assets with a flexible node-based workflow, enhanced usability, and deeper integration with Cloth and Destruction tools.

Chaos workflows continue to evolve in 5.8. Dataflow now streamlines large-scale destruction with nondestructive Geometry Collection authoring, while the new Production-Ready Chaos Cloth Panel Editor provides a more intuitive, panel-based approach to creating and simulating clothing.

Read more about what’s new in UE 5.8, and make sure you give us some feedback on the update!
